The lwmovie encoder front-end (lwfe) is designed to simplify the encoding of lwmovie files.

There is also a command-line version of the front-end (lwfecmd) that will process settings files generated by the GUI version.

If you need more advanced options, please see CommandLineOptions.txt for details on using lwmovie's intermediate converters.

Encoding lwmovie files always involves a few parts:
- Encoding an intermediate video file
- Encoding intermediate audio file(s)
- Finalizing the result into a lwmovie file

After encoding an audio or video, the encoder will automatically change input modes to use the existing intermediate file.  This allows you to tweak audio or video settings without requiring a full re-encode of the other.

The encoder has 3 tabs and a File menu.

=== File menu ===
Open Settings... - Loads settings from a lwmovie encoding project (lwproj)
Save Settings - Saves settings to the most recently opened or saved lwproj.
Save Settings As... - Saves settings to a specific file location

=== Video tab ===
The video tab is used for encoding video or selecting an input source.  Codec options are as follows:

--- MPEG-1 Video codec options ---
MPEG-1 video provides reasonable quality and CPU usage.

Maximum slices: Maximum number of slices, which are subdivisions of the frame.  lwmovie can process slices in parallel using multiple threads, so if you're planning to decode using multiple threads, you should set this to the number of threads that you expect to have available, or a number that is a multiple of it.  However, using this option can reduce quality slightly.
2-pass encoding: Enabling this option will perform a separate analysis pass and encoding pass of the video.  Increases quality at the cost of time.
High-quality encoding: Enables many options that significantly improve quality at the cost of time.
Full-range YUV: Uses JPEG colorspace instead of BT.601.  Increases quality, but may be incompatible with YUV hardware overlays.
B-frame group size: Maximum number of B-frames between P or I frames.  Using higher values for this can significantly increase quality, especially during fades, but slows encoding.  Setting this to 0 will result in no B-frames, which significantly reduces decoder memory usage.
B-frame selection: Has three options:
    Fixed: Always uses the same number of B frames.  Poor quality.
    Auto - Fast: Uses simple analysis to determine B-frame placement.
    Auto - High quality: Uses more exhaustive analysis of B-frame placement.  Using this can noticeably improve quality, but also significantly increases encode time, especially when B-frame group size is set to a large value.
Motion search range: Distance to search for motion search matches.  Higher values improve quality, but increase encode time.

Constant quality level: Attempts to keep video quality consistent, but causes variation in bitrate.
Minimum bit rate: Sets the minimum bit rate of the video.  Bit rate will still fluctuate, so you should also set the "Buffer size" value to how much readahead should be allowed before the bit rate must be brought down to compensate.
Maximum bit rate: Maximum bit rate of the video.

--- RoQ Video codec options ---
RoQ video provides lower quality, especially for high-resolution videos, but has very low CPU usage.

Key frame every ___ frames: Forces a key frame to be generated at a specified interval.
Codebook threshold range: Controls the maximum codebook exclusion threshold.
Codebook refinement thoroughness: Tunes how many threshold refinement passes are made during codebook generation.  Increasing this improves quality.

=== Audio tab ===
lwmovie only permits one codec per file, but allows multiple streams per file.  To add a stream, click the "+" button next to the "Stream" line.  To delete a stream, select the stream and click Delete.

All streams can be assigned a "Meta ID," which is an 8-character user-specified string that can be retrieved by the lwmovie API.  You can use this to identify streams for surround, languages, commentary, or any other use case.

3 audio codecs are supported:
CELT: Highest quality, highest CPU usage
MPEG Layer II: Lower quality, lower CPU usage
4-bit ADPCM: Lowest quality, no bit rate control, very low CPU usage

--- Opus Custom (CELT) codec options --
Variable bit rate: Allows variation in bit rate, which generally improves quality.
Target bit rate: Controls the output bit rate.

--- MPEG Layer II codec options ---
Target bit rate: Controls the output bit rate.

4-bit ADPCM has no options to configure.


=== Encoding a movie ===
To start encoding a movie, click Begin Processing.  This will bring up the encoding task monitor, showing the console output of each process in the batch job.